# ST0248-CA1-Analysis_of_COE_and_public_transport_in_Singapore  

**Note:** This was a repo which I made previously, and now I have moved it here.

Hi again, this was a project I did as part of CA1 assignment for the module ST0248(PROGRAMMING FOR DATA SCIENCE) in Singapore Polytechnic.  

Timeline: 4/11/2019 - 24/11/2019 (2 1/2 weeks - 3 weeks)  

For this assignment, we were tasked to anaylse atleast 3 datasets from the [data.gov.sg](https://data.gov.sg) and were published by the Land Transport Authority(LTA).  
You can view the datasets available [here](https://data.gov.sg/dataset?organization=land-transport-authority).  

For the project I picked the datasets on:
1. [Public Transport Utilisation - Average Daily Public Transport Ridership](https://data.gov.sg/dataset/public-transport-utilisation-average-public-transport-ridership)
2. [Public Transport Utilisation - Average Trip Distance](https://data.gov.sg/dataset/public-transport-utilisation-average-trip-distance)
3. [Certificate of Entitlement (COE) Bidding Results](https://data.gov.sg/dataset/coe-bidding-results)

**Note:** For this assignment, we were restrcited to only being able to use `python`, `numpy` and `matplotlib.pyplot`. Other libraries were not allowed.

You can take a look at the notebook I created [here](/Final.ipynb). It contains the code used to generate the graphs in my presentation slides [here](/PDS_CA1.pptx).

I mostly explained my code in the notebook while the slides explained the thought process I had while analyzing the datasets.

## My thoughts
Overall, it was a good challenge, as I mostly(and still do) just use `Pandas` for most of my data wrangling.  
It was quite eye opening to have to do most operations that were easy in `Pandas` in `numpy`.  
As `numpy` was more low-level compared to `Pandas`, I had to create quite a few custom functions for myself, such as my custom `groupby` function.  

I ran into the same problem with `matplotlib.pyplot` as well. As I mostly used `seaborn` to visualize my data and generate my graphs, having to go down to `matplotlib.pyplot` to generate my plots took me quite a while.  
I ended up creating my own custom functions and learned quite abit about manipulating `matplotlib`'s `figure` and `axes` classes to create better looking and complex graphs.  
Surprisingly enough, now I use both in conjunction with each other, with `seaborn` being used to get a quick graph and look at data, before using `matplotlib`'s `figure` and `axes` classes generated by `seaborn` to customise the graphs further.  

This was quite a tough assignment for me personally as I had to use lower level libraries for data ananlysis which made me realise how important some of the functions I take for granted are.  

## Side note  
Hopefully, this project may be able to serve as a reference for you if you are also taking the same module in Singapore Polytechnic or if you want to anaylse the datasets here yourself.  
If you do end up referencing my work I would appreciate it if you would acknowledge it somewhere in your project.  